oh that party was wild
you and your friends go out of the club
and call a taxi
ten minutes later you're all riding in
comfort to your homes
from the corner of your eye while
chatting with your buddies
you register that street lights are out
already
although it's 3am and still dark outside
yeah
whatever the taxi drops you at your
house and speeds away
the driveway is dark as well everyone's
probably asleep
no wonder you walk to your front door
ah the motion sensitive light doesn't
turn on
now that's weird the bulb must have
blown
you shrug and fumble for your keys in
the dark ah gotcha
now be quiet not to wake everyone you
don't turn on the lights in the hall
take off your shoes and tiptoe to the
bathroom
all you need now is a good shower to
wash off the sweat from all that dancing
you click the light switch
and nothing the light doesn't turn on
here either
now that's not a coincidence you briefly
think of going to the basement and using
the diesel generator
but drop the idea the thing is too loud
okay you'll wash in the dark then you
turn the bathtub
but all it does is gurgle and let out a
few grimy drops
and then it goes quiet ah wonderful
no light no water the best end of the
night
ever annoyed you go upstairs to your
room
careful not to step on your cat on the
way
and fall on the bed without even
undressing what's the point right
morning you wake up feeling yucky the
clothes cling to your body
you desperately need a shower now
you go downstairs to the bathroom
click on the lights without thinking and
it all comes back to you
there's still no light you check the tap
again
no news there either just great
okay it's 11 a.m already generator it is
then
you go to the basement and pour some gas
into the tank
then turn it on it begins roaring loudly
but at least it works
that means you have electricity now as
you go back
up you see your mom's woken up you
explain what's going on and go outside
to the nearby store to get some bottled
water
on the way you meet one of your
neighbors he's carrying a gallon bottle
of water in each hand
you quickly find out everyone seems to
have the same problem
no light no water as you turn the corner
even from afar you can see a line before
the store entrance
you have to wait for a full 20 minutes
before your turn comes
and you take your own two gallons
[Music]
the cashier informs you in a tired voice
that card payments are not available due
to power outage
only cash please you roll your eyes and
give him five bucks
surely it's a temporary inconvenience
nothing more
you go back hauling the bottles it's
been a full month now without
electricity and tap water
what started as a nuisance is now
turning into a full-blown disaster
most public venues are closed as well as
factories and even schools
tv isn't working either obviously so
many people have gone
unemployed you had to drop your studies
helping your parents in the yard they've
been busy growing their own vegetables
there
but what really worries you is that
there still hasn't been any official
announcement about what's happening
people are starting to gather in close
communities to help each other
many of those whose work was related to
computers and machines
are now learning to survive on their own
without the modern conveniences
but even farmers have had it tough they
try to use machines sparingly
saving the fuel and their work has
become increasingly hard
bottled water is becoming a luxury too
the prices have skyrocketed in the past
few weeks
and if it doesn't get better soon only
select few
will have access to clean water
at home you only turn on the diesel
generator when it's necessary
to cook food or do a quick cleanup once
every few days
at other times you don't use electricity
at all
you're starting to get used to waking up
at dawn to catch as much sunlight during
the day as possible
when the sun sets nothing can be done in
the darkness
so you either go to sleep after a hard
day's work
or burn a candle and read a good
old-fashioned book
half a year has passed nothing's
changing there's still no information
about what caused the outage
and people who went on expeditions to
other towns returned with the same news
from everywhere
the problem seems to be global
getting used to your new lifestyle you
and your parents have reorganized your
household
you've got a couple of cows and several
chicken for milk and eggs
and your backyard is now a real garden
with cucumbers potatoes
tomatoes and even apples growing under
your supervision
getting water for drinking and gardening
isn't ordeal though
bottled water has become too rare and
extremely expensive
so now you have to go to the river six
miles away
at first you traveled there by car
taking as many bottles and canisters as
could fit
but after a few months you've completely
run out of gas
so now and your dad walk all the way
down there and back
at least you have a cart so you can haul
more than you would with your bare hands
but the journey still takes the best
part of a day
the town has become a really friendly
and supportive community neighbors help
each other all the time
and it's become common to have barbecue
parties with the whole neighborhood
everyone's bringing their own food to
contribute and those who aren't coping
with natural living yet
take home some goods to fill their
bellies for several days
although you're living on the outskirts
almost in the country
it's still unusual how quiet it is
without cars driving by
still another sound has replaced the
engines
hooves clopping along the road more and
more people are riding horses again to
get by
the town itself has grown almost empty
people are leaving their apartments to
live in the country
and many of them have to unite in tight
groups to survive on the plots of land
they've procured for themselves
the best spots are of course along the
riverbanks
that's where most townspeople have
concentrated some try to organize
posts and sell water from the river but
they were soon put to shame
free access to water was given to
everyone
it's your mom's birthday today you and
dad have traded some meat and vegetables
for a nice bouquet of white roses and
strawberries her favorites
it's the fourth time you celebrate her
birthday in this new world
four and a half years you've been living
off the ground and things are looking
better than ever
your dad talked to the community and the
former townspeople
by the river and they agreed to help
build an irrigation system
you've dug three canals that help water
everyone's crops
and then return to the main flow now
you don't have to travel 12 miles every
few days
also people from your neighborhood have
arranged for communal crops
and you work on your patch every day
sowing
plowing and harvesting afterwards
the harvest is distributed among
everyone according to the size of their
households
with this system nobody gets left out
even if they can't work in the field
surprisingly you took a liking to this
lifestyle
you barely remember what it was like to
have a smartphone or to watch tv
but you enjoy the singing of birds every
night and working in the fresh air every
day
although it was hard at first you've now
grown tanned and lean
and muscular and both your physical and
mental health has improved
you're no longer pursuing deadlines or
hurrying anywhere
your life is now peaceful and you have a
simple purpose
to live and help others
you haven't forgotten your friends
either and you come visit each other
often
they come to help you in the field and
in the evenings you have a dinner
together
play cards and sing songs around the
fire
as far as you know life's never been
this simple yet satisfying
nobody still knows what happened but it
seems to be for the better
after all